Docs: Upgrade Weblate language reworked (#6332)
WeblateOrg/weblate: docs/admin/upgrade.rst

Upgrading Weblate
=================

> Docker-image upgrades

Reviewer: Why? Nobody seems ot use it this way.

Author: To distinguish between "Upgrades of the docker image", and "Image upgrades labeled "Docker"".
https://www.grammarly.com/blog/hyphen/
Used elsewhere in Weblate after the debate where I was made aware.

* Several changes in :file:`settings_example.py`, most notably new middleware and changed application ordering.
* The keys for JSON based formats no longer include a leading dot. Strings are adjusted during the database migration, but external components might need adjusting if you rely on keys in exports or the API.
* The Celery configuration no longer uses the ``memory`` queue. Please adjust your startup scripts and ``CELERY_TASK_ROUTES`` setting.
* The Weblate domain is now configured in the settings. See :setting:`SITE_DOMAIN` (or :envvar:`WEBLATE_SITE_DOMAIN`). You will have to configure it before running Weblate.
* The username and e-mail fields in the user database are now case-insensitive unique. It was mistakenly not enforced with PostgreSQL.

.. seealso:: :ref:`generic-upgrade-instructions`

Upgrade from 4.2 to 4.3
Upgrading from 4.2 to 4.3
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Please follow :ref:`generic-upgrade-instructions` in order to perform update.
Please follow :ref:`generic-upgrade-instructions` to upgrade.

Notable configuration or dependencies changes:

* There are some changes in quality checks, you might want to include them in case you modified the :setting:`CHECK_LIST`.

> * The source language attribute was moved from project to a component what is exposed in the API. You will need to update :ref:`wlc` in case you are using it.

Author: what is?

>    * :ref:`mono_gettext` now uses both ``msgid`` and ``msgctxt`` when present. This changes identification of translation strings in such files, breaking links to extended Weblate data such as screenshots or review states. Please ensure you commit pending changes in such files prior to upgrading. It is recommeded to force-load affected components using :djadmin:`loadpo`.

Author: ```suggestion
   * :ref:`mono_gettext` now uses both ``msgid`` and ``msgctxt`` when present. This changes identification of translation strings in such files, breaking links to extended Weblate data such as screenshots or review states. Please ensure you commit pending changes in such files prior to upgrading. It is recommended to force-load affected components using :djadmin:`loadpo`.
```

>    * :ref:`mono_gettext` now uses both ``msgid`` and ``msgctxt`` when present. This changes identification of translation strings in such files, breaking links to extended Weblate data such as screenshots or review states. Please ensure you commit pending changes in such files prior to upgrading. It is recommended to force-load affected components using :djadmin:`loadpo`.

Author: ```suggestion
   * :ref:`mono_gettext` now uses both ``msgid`` and ``msgctxt`` when present. This changes identification of translation strings in such files, breaking links to extended Weblate data such as screenshots or review states. Please ensure you commit pending changes in such files prior to upgrading. It is recommended to force-load the affected component using :djadmin:`loadpo`.
```
?

Upgrading from 4.4 to 4.5
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Please follow :ref:`generic-upgrade-instructions` to upgrade.

Notable configuration or dependency changes:

* The migration might take considerable time if processing big glossaries.
* Glossaries are now stored as regular components.
* The glossary API is removed, use the regular translation API to access glossaries.
* There is a change in :setting:`django:INSTALLED_APPS` - ``weblate.metrics`` should be added.

.. versionchanged:: 4.5.1

   * New dependency in the `pyahocorasick` module.

.. seealso:: :ref:`generic-upgrade-instructions`

Upgrading from 4.5 to 4.6
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Please follow :ref:`generic-upgrade-instructions` to upgrade.

Notable configuration or dependencies changes:

* New file formats. You might want to include them in case you modified the :setting:`WEBLATE_FORMATS`.
* API for creating components now automatically uses :ref:`internal-urls`, see :http:post:`/api/projects/(string:project)/components/`.

> * There is a change in dependencies and :setting:`django:PASSWORD_HASHERS` to prefer Argon2 for passwords hashing.

Author: A dependency change of what? Now prefers? "password hashing"

Upgrading from Python 2 to Python 3
-----------------------------------

Weblate no longer supports Python older than 3.5. If you are still running

> on older version, please migrate to Python 3 first on an existing Weblate

Author: Just making 100% sure this shouldn't be "Python version"

   weblate migrate --database=postgresql
   weblate sqlflush --database=postgresql | weblate dbshell --database=postgresql

3. Dump the legacy database and import it in PostgreSQL

.. code-block:: sh

   weblate dumpdata --all --output weblate.json
   weblate loaddata weblate.json --database=postgresql

> 4. Adjust :setting:`django:DATABASES` to only use the PostgreSQL database,

Author: Not 100% sure there isn't a fallback database.

The `pgloader`_ is a generic migration tool to migrate data to PostgreSQL. You can use it to migrate Weblate database.

> 1. Adjust your :file:`settings.py` to use PostgreSQL as your database.

Author: Are multiple databases at once possible? Otherwise this is good.
